---
layout: post
title: Review of DeepLearning.AI's "ChatGPT Prompt Engineering"
date: 2023-05-12
description: How to write effective LLM prompts.
tags:
categories:
---

DeepLearning.AI recently released a course ["ChatGPT Prompt Engineering for Developers"](https://www.deeplearning.ai/short-courses/chatgpt-prompt-engineering-for-developers/), which was created in collaboration with OpenAI. It's free for a limited time so I was quick to try it out.

While the course is short (advertised time of 1 hour), it offers valuable hands-on practice writing and iterating on prompts through the OpenAI API and provided Jupyter notebooks. Moreover, the API key used in the notebooks was provided by the course and set up ahead of time. This enables you to try out dozens of prompt variations and API calls without fear of racking up costs on a personal account (although I've found the OpenAI pricing model to be quite inexpensive for my hobbyist level usage).

Before the course, my only experience with GPT-3 and large language models (LLMs) in general was through the ChatGPT web application. Learning to use GPT-3 through Python and the OpenAI API was a fun and enlightening experience, as it demonstrated just how quickly and easily powerful applications like custom chatbots could be built.

Here are a few of my key takeaways:
- **Don't be afraid of writing long prompts:** Longer prompts allow for more specific, step-wise instructions which may be necessary to get more targeted responses.
- **Ask for a specific response format:** LLMs can output responses in specific data structures (JSON, HTML, etc.) which can help simplify follow-on processing steps.
- **Beware of model hallucinations:** Hallucinations are a known weakness of LLMs. Combat them by asking the model to first find relevant quotes from the text so that later responses can be traced back to the source.
- **No training needed:** In a traditional ML workflow, a new model must be trained for every task (label extraction, sentiment analysis, etc). In contrast, a LLM can skip the training step and be used across multiple tasks by simply engineering different prompts, drastically accelerating development.
- **Be explicit about AI-generated content:** To avoid potential ethical issues, be sure to sign any emails or messages generated by an AI application as "AI Agent" or similar.

Overall, I would highly recommend the course for those just getting into LLMs, prompt engineering, and the OpenAI API. Especially while the course is still free!
